React is a javascript library. It is an open source library for building user interfaces.
It is not a framework.
React does not focus on routing or other aspects of our web application like HTTP requests.


Components describe a part of the user interface

They are re-usable and can be nested inside other components

There are two types of components :
1)Stateless Functional Components
2)Stateful class Components

Functional Components - are just javascript functions. They can optionally receive an object of properties(props) as input and returns HTML(JSX) as output which describes UI.

Class Components - class components maintain a private internal state that is it can maintain some private information associated to that component and use that information 
to describe user interface.



javascript XML - JSX - allows to write dynamic html, its actually javascript but formatted like HTML, we can embed javascript expressions variables etc
extension to havascript language syntax
write XML-like code for elements and components
JSX tags have a tag name, attributes and childeren
not necessary to write react applications
JSX makes your react code simpler and elegant
JSX ultimately transpiles to pure javascript which is understood by the browsers.

In HTML we write class but in JSX we use className
In HTML we write <label for='names'> but in JSX we use <lable htmlFor='names'>


Props - instead of using same component multiple times, its best practice to reuse the same component (for example writing component greet 3 times to greet people, its better to just pass name of person you want to greet
reusing the same component could greet 3 different people instead of writing the component repeatedly).
its the optional input that our component can accept.
It allows the component to become dynamic.

-> to specify props for a component, we specify them as attributes.
adding a paramter to the functional component

These are the properties which you can pass to a component.when specifying components you can basically add additional attributes. 
React is going to bundle all such attributes into an object which we by convention call props.
in component defination we can access any attribute we want to and render any dynamic content.
Props are immutable , value cannot be changed

->get passed into the component                     
->function parameters                                               
->parents usually passes down the props to child                     
component, props are immutable parents own the props 
and cannot be changed by the children   
-> function components - props                                      
   class components - this.props
