If Parent does not re render, children components will not re render.

Suppose Parent component contains 2 child components - 1 regular component and 1 Pure Component.
Whenever parent component is re rendered due to set state method for example set interval after ever 2 seconds, regular component will also get re-rendered inspite of having
no change in its state etc, but pure component will not get re - rendered if parent component is getting rendered due to set state method, pure components only get rendered,
when there is change in their state etc.


Regular Component

A regular component does not implement the shouldComponentUpdate method. It always returns true by default.


Pure Component

A pure component on the other hand implements shouldComponentUpdate lifecycle method by performing a shallow comparison on props and state of the component.
It does the shallow comparison (SC) of prevState with currentState
(SC) of prevProps with currentProps.
If there is no difference, the component is not re-rendered - performance boost


Shallow comparison
Primitive Types -  for 2 primitive types A and B like numbers, string and boolean
A shallow comparison B returns true if a and b have the same value and are of the same type
Example string 'Shilpy' (SC) string 'Shilpy' returns true



Complex Types
 A (SC) B returns true if a and b reference the exact same object.
 
 For example - 
 var a = [1,2,3];
 var b = [1,2,3];
 var c = a;
 
 var ab_eq = (a === b); //false
 var ac_eq = (a === c); //true
 
 pure components preventing unnecessary renders can give a performance boost in certain scenarios. For example we are rendering a list of 50 items by not re-rendering 
 them when it is required, we are going to have a good performance boost.
 We should not mutate object or arrays in props or state, for example if you need to add a new item to the list, dont mutate it by pushing an item to the list, the
 reference to the array never changes and because pure components only check for that, the component will not re -render even if there is difference always return
 a new object or array when dealing with pure components.
 
 It is a good idea to ensure that all the children components are also pure to avoid unexpected behaviour.
 Never mutate the state. Always return a new object that reflects the new state.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Memo - Pure component for functional Components.
 
whenever the parent component is rendered, Memo Component is also re-rendered, to prevent this we do export default React.memo(MemoComp)
